hello again I am blonde T welcome to
part one this is four of my fallen we
you use a review so far we've covered
the hardware the pro controller the user
interface the built-in apps like the
browser and the methis online community
and today it's time to lift to the skirt
on the Wii U's backwards compatibility
with Wii games the Wii U like the Wii
before it comes complete with the
ability to play games from the
generation before it in the case of the
Wii U it does this in a rather clumsy
way you can't just stick in a Wii game
disc and boot it up instead the Wii U
insists on shutting down and rebooting
itself in a we shaped costume it
literally pretends to be a complete Wii
system right down to the menu and access
to the odd we eShop and everything and
if you did one idea and use the system
transfer tool to move the content from
your existing Wii system over to the Wii
U's we emulator mode all your Virtual
Console games and downloads will be here
too and they're all whistling
nonchalantly pretending they're not
living in a little cave deep inside the
Wii U's brain from here the experience
is exactly what you'd expect it behaves
just like the we would including being
entirely incompatible with the Wii U's
own controllers so any hope of using the
superior pro controller for instance to
play your Virtual Console games is
dashed right there on the jagged rocks
of harsh reality
so it's wiimotes nunchucks and we classy
controls all the way here it's an
authentic we experience even to the
detriment of compatibility with
otherwise better controllers the games
are up scaled to render properly on your
hi-def TV through the HDMI cable of
course but they are not altered in how
much detail is rendered so what you get
is a stunningly crispy signal of the
comparatively low pixel count rendering
of the game and this is good and bad on
the one hand your Wii games and virtual
console titles have never looked cleaner
or rendered more precisely on the other
hand without the inherent softness of
the old-style standard-definition analog
signal some games look a bit too crispy
those jagged edges on low res sprites
and low poly count 3d models have never
been sharper or more obvious it's a
matter of taste I suppose but in a few
cases this makes some games look worse
we games look pretty glorious in most
cases perhaps a little sharp but it's
the low res virtual concise stuff that
seems to look the harshest in fact the
slight blurriness of CRT TVs and
composite signals was actually
beneficial to the look of many of these
old games it's hard to see here on
YouTube I know with all the extra
processing and compression and stuff but
I imagine you feel comfortable and
taking my word for it if you've not seen
it for yourself right the HDMI signal
also doesn't allow old games to run in
their native four by three correct
aspect ratio forcing them instead to
fill out the sixteen by nine widescreen
image which can sometimes lead to things
looking a bit bulky but usually this
isn't a huge issue as far as gameplay
goes but it still may annoy some purists
in any case things here work very
smoothly I didn't run into any glitches
or compatibility issues with anything I
throw at it in my testing so if you have
an old-school itch to scratch for
something that lives on the Wii it's
easy to get at it and once you're done
click on a menu icon and it'll trigger a
reboot back into the full on wii u mode
for your next Jeff seeds I do wish you
could just boot into Wii games from the
Wii U menu directly because all this
feels a bit clumsy honestly having to
reboot the whole system back and forth
but now it works and it's not that much
of an inconvenience really I'm just
whining I guess because it seems to me
there's a better way to do it but you
know what do I know I'm no code monkey
anyway
join me next time for a full breakdown
and crop of mini reviews for the launch
games I've picked up so far but for now
thanks for watching I am Berlanti I'll
catch you next time